This skill obtains airport weather data and reads it aloud. For observations (METARS) the format matches that of airport ATIS.  The data comes from http://www.aviationweather.gov.

!! PILOTS -- This is NOT a source for a legal weather briefing! Get the OFFICAL weather before launching !!

METARs and ATIS, though similar, are not the same. This skill translates the METAR to be as like ATIS as possible. ICAO aviation phonetics are used and wind directions are magnetic-north referenced. ATIS often contains airport-specific information not present in METARs.

There is no standard "out loud" format for TAFs. The skill just does its best to present the forecast clearly.

You can specify the station two ways. The first is by ICAO airport identifier. If you only provide three letters, the skill assumes you are referencing a US airport by prepending a 'K'. Specify any airport worldwide by providing all four letters. Pronounce the letters using ICAO phonetics. (goo.gl/kQKUKL)

The second approach is by city name. My database of city names is limited. If your city doesn't have a large airport, it may not be in the list. If your city name is common, include the state and/or country. If your city name is unique, do NOT include the state or country. I'm experimenting with how best to disambiguate cities of the same name. I'm open to suggestions.

More features:

- Get the TAF:

 "Alexa, ask airport to get the forecast for kilo juliet foxtrot kilo"
 "Alexa, ask airport to get the taf for London"

- Get the Zulu time:

 "Alexa, ask airport weather to report zulu time"

- set a preferred compass reference for METARs:

"Alexa, ask airport weather to set wind reference to magnetic" or
"Alexa, ask airport weather to set wind reference to true"

(Real ATIS is magnetically referenced. TAF is always true.)

- set a preferred visibility unit:

"Alexa, ask airport weather to set visibility to miles"
"Alexa, ask airport weather to set visibility to kilometers"

In kilometer mode, Alexa will say "kilometers" (or "meters" if < 1km). In miles mode, no unit is stated.

- set a preferred altimeter unit unit:

"Alexa, ask airport weather to set altimeter to inches" or
"Alexa, ask airport weather to set altimeter to millibar"

In millibar mode, Alexa will say "QNH". In inches mode, no unit is stated.

- set a default temperature unit:

"Alexa, ask airport weather to set temperature to Fahrenheit" or
"Alexa, ask airport weather to set temperature to Celsius"

Real ATIS/METAR is ALWAYS in Celsius. In Fahrenheit mode, Alexa will add "Fahrenheit".

- default airport:
 
Saying a complete ICAO identifier is tedious. Save time with a default airport. First, use the app, specifying an airport as usual. Once it works, say:

"Alexa, ask airport weather to store local airport."

The most recent SUCCESSFULLY read station will become the default. From that point forward you can say:

"Alexa, ask airport weather for the local station" or
"Alexa, ask airport weather for the default station"

It's not uncommon for your local field to have a METAR, but no TAF. If so, you can set a different station for TAFs:

"Alexa, ask airport weather to store the local airport for forecasts."

Then, get a forecast:

"Alexa, ask airport weather to get the local forecast."

- repetition

Real ATIS loops continuously. Alexa can mimic that, with a repetition count:

"Alexa, ask airport weather to set repeat to five." or
"Alexa, ask airport weather to set repeat to one."

(TAFs do not repeat.)

For more instructions: http://toolsofourtools.org/alexa-metars-and-tafs
If you have suggestions: dave@toolsofourtools.org
Code is on github: https://github.com/djacobow/alexa_metar

This skill is not affiliated, endorsed, or supported in any way by some other thing called "MetarReader". So there you go. NOT from the good folks at "MetarReader."
